README.md, before:

# snaptui

A zero-dependency Python TUI framework that ports the [Charm](https://charm.sh) stack's approach to terminal UIs: the Elm Architecture, raw terminal I/O, and ANSI escape sequences.

## Why this exists

Python's TUI options are either curses-based (complex, stateful, platform-dependent) or heavy frameworks like Textual (hundreds of dependencies, CSS layout engine, async runtime). The Go ecosystem solved this with the Charm stack: a set of composable libraries that render TUIs by writing ANSI escape sequences directly to stdout. This makes rendering fast and the architecture simple -- your entire UI is a function that returns a string.

snaptui brings that approach to Python:

- **No curses.** Reads raw bytes from stdin, writes ANSI sequences to stdout.
- **No dependencies.** Uses only the Python standard library (termios, select, signal, fcntl).
- **Elm Architecture.** Your app is `init()`, `update(msg)`, `view()` -- nothing else.
- **Fast rendering.** A line-diff renderer only redraws what changed, just like Bubble Tea.

## How the Elm Architecture works

```python
from snaptui import Model, Cmd, KeyMsg, WindowSizeMsg, quit_cmd

class Counter:
    def __init__(self):
        self.count = 0

    def init(self) -> Cmd:
        return None

    def update(self, msg) -> tuple['Counter', Cmd]:
        if isinstance(msg, KeyMsg):
            if msg.key == 'q':
                return self, quit_cmd
            elif msg.key == 'up':
                self.count += 1
            elif msg.key == 'down':
                self.count -= 1
        return self, None

    def view(self) -> str:
        return f"Count: {self.count}\n\nup/down to change, q to quit"
```

The program calls `view()` after every `update()`, diffs the output, and writes only the changed lines. There's no widget tree, no layout engine, no virtual DOM -- just a string.

## Why escape sequences make this fast

Traditional TUI frameworks (curses, Textual) maintain an internal screen buffer and compute cell-by-cell diffs. snaptui skips all of that:

1. **Your `view()` returns a string** with embedded ANSI codes for colors, bold, etc.
2. **The renderer splits it into lines** and compares against the previous frame.
3. **Only changed lines get written** using cursor-movement escape sequences.
4. **One `flush()` per frame** -- the terminal handles the rest.

Because ANSI rendering is done by the terminal emulator (which is GPU-accelerated in modern terminals like Ghostty, Kitty, WezTerm), the Python side only needs to produce and diff strings. There's no pixel math, no redraw-the-whole-screen, no intermediate buffer.

## What's ported from where

snaptui combines features from four Charm libraries into one package, porting from these exact versions:

| Go module | Version |
|-----------|---------|
| [charmbracelet/bubbletea](https://github.com/charmbracelet/bubbletea) | v1.3.10 |
| [charmbracelet/lipgloss](https://github.com/charmbracelet/lipgloss) | v1.1.0 |
| [charmbracelet/bubbles](https://github.com/charmbracelet/bubbles) | v1.0.0 |
| [charmbracelet/huh](https://github.com/charmbracelet/huh) | v0.8.0 |
| [charmbracelet/x/ansi](https://github.com/charmbracelet/x/tree/main/ansi) | v0.11.6 |

Here's what's implemented and what's not:

### Core Framework

| Feature | Charm Source | snaptui | Status |
|---------|-------------|-------|--------|
| Elm Architecture (init/update/view) | bubbletea | `Model` protocol, `Program` | Done |
| Message types (Key, WindowSize, Quit) | bubbletea | `KeyMsg`, `WindowSizeMsg`, `QuitMsg` | Done |
| Command system (async Cmd) | bubbletea | `Cmd`, `batch()`, `quit_cmd` | Done |
| Raw terminal mode (termios) | bubbletea | `terminal.make_raw()` | Done |
| Alternate screen buffer | bubbletea | `Program(alt_screen=True)` | Done |
| Line-diff renderer | bubbletea | `renderer.Renderer` | Done |
| Keyboard input parsing (70+ sequences) | bubbletea | `keys.read_key()` | Done |
| SIGWINCH resize handling | bubbletea | `terminal.listen_for_resize()` | Done |
| Mouse input events | bubbletea | -- | Not yet |
| Bracketed paste events | bubbletea | -- | Not yet |
| Focus/blur events | bubbletea v2 | -- | Not yet |
| Kitty keyboard protocol | bubbletea v2 | -- | Not yet |
| Clipboard (OSC 52) | bubbletea v2 | -- | Not yet |
| Subscriptions (long-running listeners) | bubbletea | -- | Not yet |
| Suspend/resume (Ctrl+Z) | bubbletea | -- | Not yet |

### Styling

| Feature | Charm Source | snaptui | Status |
|---------|-------------|-------|--------|
| Chainable style builder | lipgloss | `Style` class | Done |
| Text attributes (bold, dim, italic, underline, reverse, strikethrough) | lipgloss | `Style.bold()`, `.dim()`, etc. | Done |
| True color (24-bit RGB) | lipgloss | `Style.fg()`, `.bg()` | Done |
| Padding (CSS shorthand) | lipgloss | `Style.padding()` | Done |
| Margin (CSS shorthand) | lipgloss | `Style.margin()` | Done |
| Width/height constraints | lipgloss | `Style.width()`, `.height()` | Done |
| Max width/height | lipgloss | `Style.max_width()`, `.max_height()` | Done |
| Auto word-wrap on `.width()` | lipgloss | `Style._apply_wrap()` | Done |
| Borders (5 types, per-side, colored) | lipgloss | `Style.border()`, `.border_fg()` | Done |
| Horizontal alignment | lipgloss | `Style.align()` | Done |
| Immutable builder pattern | lipgloss | `Style._copy()` | Done |
| ANSI 16/256 color fallback | lipgloss | -- | Not yet |
| Adaptive colors (light/dark) | lipgloss | -- | Not yet |
| Vertical alignment | lipgloss | -- | Not yet |
| Tab width | lipgloss | -- | Not yet |
| Table rendering | lipgloss/table | -- | Not yet |
| List rendering (enumerators) | lipgloss/list | -- | Not yet |
| Tree rendering | lipgloss/tree | -- | Not yet |

### Layout

| Feature | Charm Source | snaptui | Status |
|---------|-------------|-------|--------|
| Join blocks horizontally | lipgloss | `join_horizontal()` | Done |
| Join blocks vertically | lipgloss | `join_vertical()` | Done |
| Place content in canvas (2D) | lipgloss | `place()` | Done |
| PlaceHorizontal / PlaceVertical | lipgloss | -- | Not yet |

### String Utilities

| Feature | Charm Source | snaptui | Status |
|---------|-------------|-------|--------|
| ANSI-aware visible width | x/ansi | `strutil.visible_width()` | Done |
| ANSI stripping | x/ansi | `strutil.strip_ansi()` | Done |
| ANSI-aware truncation | x/ansi | `strutil.truncate()` | Done |
| ANSI-aware word wrap | x/ansi | `strutil.word_wrap()` | Done |
| ANSI-aware padding | x/ansi | `strutil.pad_right()` | Done |
| CJK wide character support | x/ansi | `strutil._char_width()` | Done |
| Grapheme cluster segmentation | x/ansi | -- | Not yet |
| Hard wrap (non-word-boundary) | x/ansi | -- | Not yet (hard-break exists within word_wrap) |
| Truncate with tail ("...") | x/ansi | -- | Not yet |

### Components

| Component | Charm Source | snaptui | Status |
|-----------|-------------|-------|--------|
| Single-line text input | bubbles/textinput | `TextInput` | Done |
| Multi-line text area | bubbles/textarea | `TextArea` | Done |
| Scrollable viewport | bubbles/viewport | `Viewport` | Done |
| Paginated list (delegate pattern) | bubbles/list + bubbles/paginator | `List` | Done |
| Option picker (select) | bubbles/list | `Select` | Done |
| Yes/No confirmation | huh | `Confirm` | Done |
| Multi-field form | huh | `Form` | Done |
| Form theme (focused/blurred styles) | huh | `Theme`, `ThemeCharm` | Done |
| App theme (titles, borders, list items) | snaptui-original | `AppTheme`, `AppThemeCharm` | Done |
| Table | bubbles/table | -- | Not yet |
| Spinner | bubbles/spinner | -- | Not yet |
| Progress bar | bubbles/progress | -- | Not yet |
| File picker | bubbles/filepicker | -- | Not yet |
| Timer / Stopwatch | bubbles/timer, bubbles/stopwatch | -- | Not yet |
| Help (auto-generated keybinds) | bubbles/help | -- | Not yet |

### Legend

- **Done** -- Implemented and tested
- **Not yet** -- Not implemented; listed here so future apps know what to add when they need it

## Architecture

```
your_app.py
    |
    +-- snaptui (framework + styling + components in one package)
            |
            +-- model.py        Elm Architecture: Model protocol, Msg, Cmd
            +-- keys.py         Keyboard input: escape sequence parser
            +-- program.py      Event loop: raw mode, resize, render cycle
            +-- terminal.py     Low-level: termios, ioctl, ANSI sequences
            +-- renderer.py     Line-diff screen updates
            +-- style.py        Lip Gloss equivalent: chainable styling
            +-- strutil.py      ANSI-aware string ops: width, wrap, truncate
            +-- layout.py       join_horizontal, join_vertical, place
            +-- components/
                    +-- textinput.py   Single-line input
                    +-- textarea.py    Multi-line editor
                    +-- viewport.py    Scrollable content
                    +-- list.py        Paginated list with delegates
                    +-- select.py      Option picker
                    +-- confirm.py     Yes/No prompt
                    +-- form.py        Multi-field form
```

In Go, these are spread across four repos (bubbletea, lipgloss, bubbles, x/ansi). snaptui combines them because Python apps can just import what they need from one package.

## File mapping

Exact Go source → snaptui file mapping for reference when porting new features or chasing bugs back to the Go implementation.

Go source repos:
- [bubbletea](https://github.com/charmbracelet/bubbletea) (v1.3.10) — event loop, renderer, key input
- [lipgloss](https://github.com/charmbracelet/lipgloss) (v1.1.0) — styling, layout, borders
- [bubbles](https://github.com/charmbracelet/bubbles) (v1.0.0) — textinput, textarea, viewport, list
- [huh](https://github.com/charmbracelet/huh) (v0.8.0) — form, select, confirm, theme
- [x/ansi](https://github.com/charmbracelet/x/tree/main/ansi) (v0.11.6) — string width, wrap, truncate

| snaptui file | Go source(s) |
|---|---|
| `model.py` | `bubbletea/tea.go` |
| `program.py` | `bubbletea/tea.go`, `bubbletea/signals_unix.go` |
| `renderer.py` | `bubbletea/standard_renderer.go` |
| `keys.py` | `bubbletea/key.go`, `bubbletea/key_sequences.go` |
| `terminal.py` | `bubbletea/tty_unix.go`, `x/ansi/mode.go` |
| `style.py` | `lipgloss/style.go`, `lipgloss/set.go`, `lipgloss/get.go`, `lipgloss/color.go`, `lipgloss/borders.go`, `lipgloss/whitespace.go`, `lipgloss/size.go` |
| `layout.py` | `lipgloss/join.go`, `lipgloss/align.go`, `lipgloss/position.go` |
| `strutil.py` | `x/ansi/width.go`, `x/ansi/wrap.go`, `x/ansi/truncate.go`, `x/ansi/style.go` |
| `theme.py` | `huh/theme.go` (Form theme); `AppTheme`/`AppThemeCharm` are snaptui-original |
| `components/textinput.py` | `bubbles/textinput/textinput.go`, `bubbles/cursor/cursor.go` |
| `components/textarea.py` | `bubbles/textarea/textarea.go` |
| `components/viewport.py` | `bubbles/viewport/viewport.go`, `bubbles/viewport/keymap.go` |
| `components/list.py` | `bubbles/list/list.go`, `bubbles/list/defaultitem.go`, `bubbles/paginator/paginator.go` |
| `components/select.py` | `huh/field_select.go` |
| `components/confirm.py` | `huh/field_confirm.go` |
| `components/form.py` | `huh/form.go`, `huh/group.go` |

## Running tests

```
python3 -m pytest
```

Commit message:

Charm v2 features: underline styles, KeyMsg modifiers, View struct, cursor support
Port selected Bubble Tea/Lip Gloss v2 improvements to snaptui:
- Underline enhancements: curly, dotted, dashed, double styles and color (SGR 4:x, 58)
- KeyMsg modifier bitfield: Mod IntFlag with CTRL/SHIFT/ALT/META, convenience properties
- Declarative View struct: cursor position, alt screen, window title returned from view()
- Hardware cursor support in renderer for TextInput/TextArea cursor_position()
- set_window_title() OSC 2 helper in terminal.py

Bump version 0.1.2 -> 0.1.7.

README.md, after:

# snaptui

A zero-dependency Python TUI framework that ports the [Charm](https://charm.sh) stack's approach to terminal UIs: the Elm Architecture, raw terminal I/O, and ANSI escape sequences.

## Why this exists

Python's TUI options are either curses-based (complex, stateful, platform-dependent) or heavy frameworks like Textual (hundreds of dependencies, CSS layout engine, async runtime). The Go ecosystem solved this with the Charm stack: a set of composable libraries that render TUIs by writing ANSI escape sequences directly to stdout. This makes rendering fast and the architecture simple -- your entire UI is a function that returns a string.

snaptui brings that approach to Python:

- **No curses.** Reads raw bytes from stdin, writes ANSI sequences to stdout.
- **No dependencies.** Uses only the Python standard library (termios, select, signal, fcntl).
- **Elm Architecture.** Your app is `init()`, `update(msg)`, `view()` -- nothing else.
- **Fast rendering.** A line-diff renderer only redraws what changed, just like Bubble Tea.

## How the Elm Architecture works

```python
from snaptui import Model, Cmd, KeyMsg, WindowSizeMsg, quit_cmd

class Counter:
    def __init__(self):
        self.count = 0

    def init(self) -> Cmd:
        return None

    def update(self, msg) -> tuple['Counter', Cmd]:
        if isinstance(msg, KeyMsg):
            if msg.key == 'q':
                return self, quit_cmd
            elif msg.key == 'up':
                self.count += 1
            elif msg.key == 'down':
                self.count -= 1
        return self, None

    def view(self) -> str:
        return f"Count: {self.count}\n\nup/down to change, q to quit"
```

The program calls `view()` after every `update()`, diffs the output, and writes only the changed lines. There's no widget tree, no layout engine, no virtual DOM -- just a string.

## Why escape sequences make this fast

Traditional TUI frameworks (curses, Textual) maintain an internal screen buffer and compute cell-by-cell diffs. snaptui skips all of that:

1. **Your `view()` returns a string** with embedded ANSI codes for colors, bold, etc.
2. **The renderer splits it into lines** and compares against the previous frame.
3. **Only changed lines get written** using cursor-movement escape sequences.
4. **One `flush()` per frame** -- the terminal handles the rest.

Because ANSI rendering is done by the terminal emulator (which is GPU-accelerated in modern terminals like Ghostty, Kitty, WezTerm), the Python side only needs to produce and diff strings. There's no pixel math, no redraw-the-whole-screen, no intermediate buffer.

### Why not cell-level diffing?

Bubble Tea v2 introduced a "Cursed Renderer" that parses view output through an ANSI state machine, builds a 2D grid of cells (each with character + style attributes), and diffs individual cells against the previous frame. snaptui deliberately does not adopt this approach.

The reason is the ratio of computation cost to I/O savings. In Go, the ANSI parser is compiled machine code -- iterating 80x40 = 3,200 cells, comparing structs, and building output takes microseconds. The I/O savings (writing 200 bytes instead of 3,000) are worth more than the computation cost.

In Python, the same state-machine parser would iterate character-by-character through interpreted code, create objects for each cell, and do attribute comparisons through Python's object protocol. For 3,200 cells this easily costs 1-5ms, while the I/O savings of ~2,800 fewer bytes is maybe 0.1ms at TTY write speeds. You'd spend 5ms of CPU to save 0.1ms of I/O.

The line-diff renderer sidesteps this: string equality (`old == new`) is a single C-level comparison in CPython. No parsing, no cell objects, no per-character work. The cost is near-zero, and unchanged lines (the majority of the screen on any given frame) are skipped entirely.

## What's ported from where

snaptui combines features from four Charm libraries into one package, porting from these exact versions:

| Go module | Version |
|-----------|---------|
| [charmbracelet/bubbletea](https://github.com/charmbracelet/bubbletea) | v1.3.10 |
| [charmbracelet/lipgloss](https://github.com/charmbracelet/lipgloss) | v1.1.0 |
| [charmbracelet/bubbles](https://github.com/charmbracelet/bubbles) | v1.0.0 |
| [charmbracelet/huh](https://github.com/charmbracelet/huh) | v0.8.0 |
| [charmbracelet/x/ansi](https://github.com/charmbracelet/x/tree/main/ansi) | v0.11.6 |

Here's what's implemented and what's not:

### Core Framework

| Feature | Charm Source | snaptui | Status |
|---------|-------------|-------|--------|
| Elm Architecture (init/update/view) | bubbletea | `Model` protocol, `Program` | Done |
| Message types (Key, WindowSize, Quit) | bubbletea | `KeyMsg`, `WindowSizeMsg`, `QuitMsg` | Done |
| Command system (async Cmd) | bubbletea | `Cmd`, `batch()`, `quit_cmd` | Done |
| Raw terminal mode (termios) | bubbletea | `terminal.make_raw()` | Done |
| Alternate screen buffer | bubbletea | `Program(alt_screen=True)` | Done |
| Line-diff renderer | bubbletea | `renderer.Renderer` | Done |
| Keyboard input parsing (70+ sequences) | bubbletea | `keys.read_key()` | Done |
| SIGWINCH resize handling | bubbletea | `terminal.listen_for_resize()` | Done |
| Mouse input events | bubbletea | -- | Not yet |
| Bracketed paste events | bubbletea | -- | Not yet |
| Declarative View struct (cursor, title, alt screen) | bubbletea v2 | `View` dataclass | Done |
| Key modifier bitfield | bubbletea v2 | `Mod` IntFlag on `KeyMsg` | Done |
| Focus/blur events | bubbletea v2 | -- | Not yet |
| Kitty keyboard protocol | bubbletea v2 | -- | Not yet |
| Clipboard (OSC 52) | bubbletea v2 | -- | Not yet |
| Subscriptions (long-running listeners) | bubbletea | -- | Not yet |
| Suspend/resume (Ctrl+Z) | bubbletea | -- | Not yet |

### Styling

| Feature | Charm Source | snaptui | Status |
|---------|-------------|-------|--------|
| Chainable style builder | lipgloss | `Style` class | Done |
| Text attributes (bold, dim, italic, underline, reverse, strikethrough) | lipgloss | `Style.bold()`, `.dim()`, etc. | Done |
| Underline styles (curly, dotted, dashed, double) and color | lipgloss v2 | `Style.underline_style()`, `.underline_color()` | Done |
| True color (24-bit RGB) | lipgloss | `Style.fg()`, `.bg()` | Done |
| Padding (CSS shorthand) | lipgloss | `Style.padding()` | Done |
| Margin (CSS shorthand) | lipgloss | `Style.margin()` | Done |
| Width/height constraints | lipgloss | `Style.width()`, `.height()` | Done |
| Max width/height | lipgloss | `Style.max_width()`, `.max_height()` | Done |
| Auto word-wrap on `.width()` | lipgloss | `Style._apply_wrap()` | Done |
| Borders (5 types, per-side, colored) | lipgloss | `Style.border()`, `.border_fg()` | Done |
| Horizontal alignment | lipgloss | `Style.align()` | Done |
| Immutable builder pattern | lipgloss | `Style._copy()` | Done |
| ANSI 16/256 color fallback | lipgloss | -- | Not yet |
| Adaptive colors (light/dark) | lipgloss | -- | Not yet |
| Vertical alignment | lipgloss | -- | Not yet |
| Tab width | lipgloss | -- | Not yet |
| Table rendering | lipgloss/table | -- | Not yet |
| List rendering (enumerators) | lipgloss/list | -- | Not yet |
| Tree rendering | lipgloss/tree | -- | Not yet |

### Layout

| Feature | Charm Source | snaptui | Status |
|---------|-------------|-------|--------|
| Join blocks horizontally | lipgloss | `join_horizontal()` | Done |
| Join blocks vertically | lipgloss | `join_vertical()` | Done |
| Place content in canvas (2D) | lipgloss | `place()` | Done |
| PlaceHorizontal / PlaceVertical | lipgloss | -- | Not yet |

### String Utilities

| Feature | Charm Source | snaptui | Status |
|---------|-------------|-------|--------|
| ANSI-aware visible width | x/ansi | `strutil.visible_width()` | Done |
| ANSI stripping | x/ansi | `strutil.strip_ansi()` | Done |
| ANSI-aware truncation | x/ansi | `strutil.truncate()` | Done |
| ANSI-aware word wrap | x/ansi | `strutil.word_wrap()` | Done |
| ANSI-aware padding | x/ansi | `strutil.pad_right()` | Done |
| CJK wide character support | x/ansi | `strutil._char_width()` | Done |
| Grapheme cluster segmentation | x/ansi | -- | Not yet |
| Hard wrap (non-word-boundary) | x/ansi | -- | Not yet (hard-break exists within word_wrap) |
| Truncate with tail ("...") | x/ansi | -- | Not yet |

### Components

| Component | Charm Source | snaptui | Status |
|-----------|-------------|-------|--------|
| Single-line text input | bubbles/textinput | `TextInput` | Done |
| Multi-line text area | bubbles/textarea | `TextArea` | Done |
| Scrollable viewport | bubbles/viewport | `Viewport` | Done |
| Paginated list (delegate pattern) | bubbles/list + bubbles/paginator | `List` | Done |
| Option picker (select) | bubbles/list | `Select` | Done |
| Yes/No confirmation | huh | `Confirm` | Done |
| Multi-field form | huh | `Form` | Done |
| Form theme (focused/blurred styles) | huh | `Theme`, `ThemeCharm` | Done |
| App theme (titles, borders, list items) | snaptui-original | `AppTheme`, `AppThemeCharm` | Done |
| Table | bubbles/table | -- | Not yet |
| Spinner | bubbles/spinner | -- | Not yet |
| Progress bar | bubbles/progress | -- | Not yet |
| File picker | bubbles/filepicker | -- | Not yet |
| Timer / Stopwatch | bubbles/timer, bubbles/stopwatch | -- | Not yet |
| Help (auto-generated keybinds) | bubbles/help | -- | Not yet |

### Legend

- **Done** -- Implemented and tested
- **Not yet** -- Not implemented; listed here so future apps know what to add when they need it

## Architecture

```
your_app.py
    |
    +-- snaptui (framework + styling + components in one package)
            |
            +-- model.py        Elm Architecture: Model protocol, Msg, Cmd
            +-- keys.py         Keyboard input: escape sequence parser
            +-- program.py      Event loop: raw mode, resize, render cycle
            +-- terminal.py     Low-level: termios, ioctl, ANSI sequences
            +-- renderer.py     Line-diff screen updates
            +-- style.py        Lip Gloss equivalent: chainable styling
            +-- strutil.py      ANSI-aware string ops: width, wrap, truncate
            +-- layout.py       join_horizontal, join_vertical, place
            +-- components/
                    +-- textinput.py   Single-line input
                    +-- textarea.py    Multi-line editor
                    +-- viewport.py    Scrollable content
                    +-- list.py        Paginated list with delegates
                    +-- select.py      Option picker
                    +-- confirm.py     Yes/No prompt
                    +-- form.py        Multi-field form
```

In Go, these are spread across four repos (bubbletea, lipgloss, bubbles, x/ansi). snaptui combines them because Python apps can just import what they need from one package.

## File mapping

Exact Go source → snaptui file mapping for reference when porting new features or chasing bugs back to the Go implementation.

Go source repos:
- [bubbletea](https://github.com/charmbracelet/bubbletea) (v1.3.10) — event loop, renderer, key input
- [lipgloss](https://github.com/charmbracelet/lipgloss) (v1.1.0) — styling, layout, borders
- [bubbles](https://github.com/charmbracelet/bubbles) (v1.0.0) — textinput, textarea, viewport, list
- [huh](https://github.com/charmbracelet/huh) (v0.8.0) — form, select, confirm, theme
- [x/ansi](https://github.com/charmbracelet/x/tree/main/ansi) (v0.11.6) — string width, wrap, truncate

| snaptui file | Go source(s) |
|---|---|
| `model.py` | `bubbletea/tea.go` |
| `program.py` | `bubbletea/tea.go`, `bubbletea/signals_unix.go` |
| `renderer.py` | `bubbletea/standard_renderer.go` |
| `keys.py` | `bubbletea/key.go`, `bubbletea/key_sequences.go` |
| `terminal.py` | `bubbletea/tty_unix.go`, `x/ansi/mode.go` |
| `style.py` | `lipgloss/style.go`, `lipgloss/set.go`, `lipgloss/get.go`, `lipgloss/color.go`, `lipgloss/borders.go`, `lipgloss/whitespace.go`, `lipgloss/size.go` |
| `layout.py` | `lipgloss/join.go`, `lipgloss/align.go`, `lipgloss/position.go` |
| `strutil.py` | `x/ansi/width.go`, `x/ansi/wrap.go`, `x/ansi/truncate.go`, `x/ansi/style.go` |
| `theme.py` | `huh/theme.go` (Form theme); `AppTheme`/`AppThemeCharm` are snaptui-original |
| `components/textinput.py` | `bubbles/textinput/textinput.go`, `bubbles/cursor/cursor.go` |
| `components/textarea.py` | `bubbles/textarea/textarea.go` |
| `components/viewport.py` | `bubbles/viewport/viewport.go`, `bubbles/viewport/keymap.go` |
| `components/list.py` | `bubbles/list/list.go`, `bubbles/list/defaultitem.go`, `bubbles/paginator/paginator.go` |
| `components/select.py` | `huh/field_select.go` |
| `components/confirm.py` | `huh/field_confirm.go` |
| `components/form.py` | `huh/form.go`, `huh/group.go` |

## Running tests

```
python3 -m pytest
```
